Editorial PID issuance revisions (#126)
italia/eidas-it-wallet-docs: docs/en/pid-eaa-issuance.rst

Below a detailed description for each step represented in the previous picture:

    0. **Wallet Instance Setup**: the first time the Wallet Instance is started a preliminary setup phase MUST be carried out. It consists of the release of a verifiable proof issued by the Attestation Service provided by the Wallet Provider that asserts the genuineness, the authenticity and the compliance with a trust framework of the Wallet Instance. The verifiable proof binds a public key corresponding to a local private key generated by the Wallet Instance. 
    1. **Obtaining the Trusted PID Provider**: the Wallet Instance discovers the trusted PID Provider at the Subordinate Listing Endpoint of the Trust Anchor, and then inspects the Metadata looking for the availability of the PID credential. 
    2. **Obtaining of PID Provider Metadata**: the Wallet Instance establishes the trust to the PID Provider according to the Trust Model, obtaining the Metadata that discloses the formats of the PID, the algorithms supported, and any other parameter required for interoperability needs.

>     3. **PID Request**: following the Authorization Code Flow in `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_ the Wallet Instance requests a PID to the PID Provider. A fresh key pair that is generated by the Wallet Instance for the purpose of the sender-constrained Access Token will be used by the PID Provider for the key binding of the PID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    3. **PID Request**: following the Authorization Code Flow in `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_ the Wallet Instance requests a PID to the PID Provider. A fresh key pair that is generated by the Wallet Instance for the purpose of the sender-constrained Access Token will be used by the PID Provider for the Holder Key Binding of the PID.
```

Below the description of the most relevant operations involved in the (Q)EAA issuance:

>     1. **Obtaining the Trusted (Q)EAA Provider**: the Wallet Instance discovers the trusted (Q)EAA Provider at the Subordinate Listing Endpoint of the Trust Anchor, and then inspects the Metadata looking for the credential capabilities. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. **Obtaining the Trusted (Q)EAA Provider**: the Wallet Instance discovers the trusted (Q)EAA Provider using the Federation API, using the Subordinate Listing Endpoint of the Trust Anchor and its Intermediate, and then inspects the Metadata looking for the credential capabilities. 
```

>     1. **Obtaining the Trusted (Q)EAA Provider**: the Wallet Instance discovers the trusted (Q)EAA Provider using the Federation API, using the Subordinate Listing Endpoint of the Trust Anchor and its Intermediate, and then inspects the Metadata looking for the credential capabilities. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. **Obtaining the Trusted (Q)EAA Provider**: the Wallet Instance discovers the trusted (Q)EAA Provider using the Federation API, using the Subordinate Listing Endpoint of the Trust Anchor and its Intermediates, and then inspects the Metadata looking for the credential capabilities. 
```

    2. **Obtaining of (Q)EAA Provider Metadata**: the Wallet Instance establishes the trust to the (Q)EAA Provider according to the Trust Model, obtaining the Metadata that discloses the formats of the (Q)EAA, the algorithms supported, and any other parameter required for interoperability needs.
    3. **(Q)EAA Request**: following the Authorization Code Flow in `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_ the Wallet Instance requests a (Q)EAA to the (Q)EAA Provider. A fresh key pair that is generated by the Wallet Instance for the purpose of the sender-constrained Access Token will be used by (Q)EAA Provider for the key binding of the (Q)EAA. The (Q)EAA Provider checks the Wallet Instance by means of the Wallet Instance Attestation and the Trust Chain related to the Wallet Provider.

>     4. **User Authentication**: the (Q)EAA Provider, acting as a Verifier (Relying Party), authenticates the User with the PID. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    4. **User Authentication**: the (Q)EAA Provider, acting as a Verifier (Relying Party), authenticates the User evaluating the presentation of the PID. 
```

   
    PID/(Q)EAA Issuance - Detailed flow

**Steps 1-4 (Discovery):** The User selects the PID/(Q)EAA Provider, and the Wallet Instance obtains the Metadata for the selected PID/(Q)EAA Provider.

.. note::

    **Federation Check:** The Wallet Instance needs to check if the PID/(Q)EAA Provider is part of the Federation, obtaining then its protocol specific Metadata. A non-normative example of a response from the endpoint **.well-known/openid-federation** with the **Entity Configuration** and the **Metadata** of the PID/(Q)EAA Provider is represented within the section `Entity Configuration Credential Issuer`_.

> **Steps 5-6 (PAR Request):** The Wallet Instance creates a fresh PKCE code verifier, and ``state`` parameter for the *Pushed Authorization Request*. The Wallet Instance sends these parameters along in a *Pushed Authorization Request* using the OIDC ``request`` parameter (hereafter Request Object) (see :rfc:`9126` Section 3) to the PID/(Q)EAA Provider PAR endpoint to prevent Request URI swapping attack (see :rfc:`9126`). The Wallet Instance MUST create the ``code_verifier`` with enough entropy random string using the unreserved characters with a minimum length of 43 characters and a maximum length of 128 characters to make it impractical for an attacker to guess its value. The value MUST be generated following the recommendation in Section 4.1 of (see :rfc:`7636`). The Wallet Instance signs this request using the private key that is created during the setup phase to obtain the Wallet Instance Attestation. The related public key that is attested by the Wallet Provider is inside the Wallet Instance Attestation ``cnf`` claim.. An OAuth2 client authentication method is involved, since in this flow the Pushed Authorization Endpoint is a protected endpoint. The client authentication is based on the model defined in [:rfc:`7521`] using the Wallet Instance Attestation JWS inside the ``client_assertion`` parameter. The authorization_details [RAR :rfc:`9396`] parameter is extended to allow Wallet Instance to specify the types of the credentials when requesting authorization for the PID/(Q)EAA issuance. The PID/(Q)EAA Provider performs the following checks upon the receipt of the PAR request:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Steps 5-6 (PAR Request):** The Wallet Instance creates a fresh PKCE code verifier, and ``state`` parameter for the *Pushed Authorization Request*. The Wallet Instance sends these parameters along in a *Pushed Authorization Request* using the OIDC ``request`` parameter (hereafter Request Object) (see :rfc:`9126` Section 3) to the PID/(Q)EAA Provider PAR endpoint to prevent Request URI swapping attack (see :rfc:`9126`). The Wallet Instance MUST create the ``code_verifier`` with enough entropy random string using the unreserved characters with a minimum length of 43 characters and a maximum length of 128 characters, making it impractical for an attacker to guess its value. The value MUST be generated following the recommendation in Section 4.1 of :rfc:`7636`. The Wallet Instance signs this request using the private key that is created during the setup phase to obtain the Wallet Instance Attestation. The related public key that is attested by the Wallet Provider is inside the Wallet Instance Attestation ``cnf`` claim.. An OAuth2 client authentication method is involved, since in this flow the Pushed Authorization Endpoint is a protected endpoint. The client authentication is based on the model defined in [:rfc:`7521`] using the Wallet Instance Attestation JWS inside the ``client_assertion`` parameter. The authorization_details [RAR :rfc:`9396`] parameter is extended to allow Wallet Instance to specify the types of credentials when requesting authorization for the PID/(Q)EAA issuance. The PID/(Q)EAA Provider performs the following checks upon the receipt of the PAR request:
```

    

**Steps 8-9 (Authorization Request):** The Wallet Instance sends an authorization request to the PID/(Q)EAA Provider Authorization Endpoint. Since parts of this Authorization Request content, e.g., the ``code_challenge`` parameter value, are unique to a particular Authorization Request, the Wallet Instance MUST only use a ``request_uri`` value once (:rfc:`9126`); The  PID/(Q)EAA Provider performs the following checks upon the receipt of the Authorization Request:

>     1. It MUST treat ``request_uri`` values as one-time use and MUST reject an expired request. However, it MAY allow for duplicate requests due to a user reloading/refreshing their user agent (derived from :rfc:`9126`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. It MUST treat ``request_uri`` values as one-time use and MUST reject an expired request. However, it MAY allow for duplicate requests due to a user reloading/refreshing their user-agent (derived from :rfc:`9126`).
```

Reviewer: according to the term used in the relayign party solution section

Author: > according to the term used in the relayign party solution section

okay, fine with me to use "user-agent"

.. note::

   **User Authentication and Consent:** The PID Provider performs the User authentication based on the requirements of eIDAS LoA High by means of national notified eIDAS scheme and requires the User consent for the PID issuance. 

>    The (Q)EAA Provider performs the User authentication requesting a valid PID to the Wallet Instance. The (Q)EAA Provider MUST use [`OpenID4VP`_] to dynamically request the presentation of the PID. From a protocol perspective, the (Q)EAA Provider then acts as a Verifier and sends a presentation request to the Wallet Instance. The Wallet Instance MUST have a valid PID obtained prior to starting a transaction with the (Q)EAA Provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The (Q)EAA Provider performs the User authentication requesting a valid PID to the Wallet Instance. The (Q)EAA Provider MUST use [`OpenID4VP`_] to dynamically request the presentation of the PID. From a protocol perspective, the (Q)EAA Provider then acts as a Relying Party and provide the presentation request to the Wallet Instance. The Wallet Instance MUST have a valid PID obtained prior to start the transaction with the (Q)EAA Provider.
```

**Steps 10-11 (Authorization Response):** The PID/(Q)EAA Provider sends an authorization ``code`` together with ``state`` and ``iss`` parameters to the Wallet Instance. The Wallet Instance performs the following checks on the Authorization Response:

>     1. It MUST check the Authorization Response contains all the defined parameters according to what we defined in :ref:`Table of the HTTP Response parameters <table_http_response_claim>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. It MUST check the Authorization Response contains all the defined parameters according to :ref:`Table of the HTTP Response parameters <table_http_response_claim>`.
```

    HTTP/1.1 302 Found
    Location: eudiw://start.wallet.example.org?code=SplxlOBeZQQYbYS6WxSbIA&state=fyZiOL9Lf2CeKuNT2JzxiLRDink0uPcd&iss=https%3A%2F%2Fpid-provider.example.org

**Steps 12-13 (DPoP Proof for Token Endpoint)**: The Wallet Instance MUST create a new key pair for the DPoP and a fresh DPoP Proof JWT following the instruction provided in Section 4 of (:rfc:`9449`) for the token request to the PID/(Q)EAA Provider. The DPoP Proof JWT is signed using the created private key for DPoP by Wallet Instance. DPoP provides a way to bind the Access Token to a certain sender (Wallet Instance) (:rfc:`9449`). This mitigates the misuse of leaked or stolen Access Tokens at the Credential Endpoint of PID/(Q)EAA Issuer as the attacker needs to present a valid DPoP Proof JWT.

**Step 14 (Token Request):** The Wallet Instance sends a token request to the PID/(Q)EAA Provider Token Endpoint using the authorization ``code``, ``code_verifier``, *DPoP Proof JWT* and ``private_key_jwt`` parameters (``client_assertion_type`` and ``client_assertion``). 

> The ``client_assertion`` is signed using the private key that is created during the setup phase to obtain the Wallet Instance Attestation. The related public key that is attested by the Wallet Provider is inside the Wallet Instance Attestation (``cnf`` claim). The PID/(Q)EAA Provider performs the following checks on the Token Request:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``client_assertion`` is signed using the private key that is created during the setup phase to obtain the Wallet Instance Attestation. The related public key that is attested by the Wallet Provider is provided within the Wallet Instance Attestation (``cnf`` claim). The PID/(Q)EAA Provider performs the following checks on the Token Request:
```

    }

> **Steps 16-17 (DPoP Proof for Credential Endpoint):** The Wallet Instance creates a proof of possession with the DPoP key following the steps in Section 7.2.1 of `OPENID4VCI`_ and the ``c_nonce`` obtained in **Step 15** and it creates a DPoP Proof JWT based on Section 4 of (:rfc:`9449`) for the request to the PID/(Q)EAA credential issuance endpoint. The ``jwk`` value in the proof parameter MUST be equal to the same public key that is generated for the DPoP.     

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Steps 16-17 (DPoP Proof for Credential Endpoint):** The Wallet Instance creates a proof of possession with the DPoP key following the steps in Section 7.2.1 of `OPENID4VCI`_ and the ``c_nonce`` obtained in **Step 15** and it creates a DPoP Proof JWT based on Section 4 of (:rfc:`9449`) for the request to the PID/(Q)EAA credential issuance endpoint. The ``jwk`` value in the proof parameter MUST be equal to the public key generated for the DPoP.     
```

> **Step 18 (Credential Request):** The Wallet Instance sends a PID/(Q)EAA issuance request to the PID/(Q)EAA credential endpoint. It contains the *Access Token*, the *DPoP Proof JWT*, the *credential type*, the ``proof`` (proof of possession of the key) and the ``format``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Step 18 (Credential Request):** The Wallet Instance requests a PID/(Q)EAA issuance to the PID/(Q)EAA credential endpoint. The request MUST contain the *Access Token*, the *DPoP Proof JWT*, and the *credential type*, the ``proof`` (proof of possession of the key) and the ``format`` parameters.
```

.. note::

>     **PID Credential Schema and Status registration:** The PID/(Q)EAA Provider MUST register all the issued credentials for their later revocation, if needed. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    **PID/(Q)EAA Credential Schema and Status registration:** The PID/(Q)EAA Provider MUST register all the issued credentials for their later revocation, if needed. 
```

> **Steps 19-21 (Credential Response):** The PID/(Q)EAA Provider MUST validate the *DPoP JWT Proof* based on the steps defined in Section 4.3 of (:rfc:`9449`) and whether the *Access Token* is valid and suitable for the requested PID/(Q)EAA. It also MUST validate the proof of possession for the key material the new credential SHALL be bound to following the steps in Section 7.2.2 of `OPENID4VCI`_. If all checks succeed, the PID/(Q)EAA Provider creates a new credential bound to the key material and sends it to the Wallet Instance. The Wallet Instance MUST perform the following checks before proceeding with the secure storage of the PID/(Q)EAA credential: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Steps 19-21 (Credential Response):** The PID/(Q)EAA Provider MUST validate the *DPoP JWT Proof* based on the steps defined in Section 4.3 of (:rfc:`9449`) and whether the *Access Token* is valid and suitable for the requested PID/(Q)EAA. It also MUST validate the proof of possession for the key material the new credential SHALL be bound to following the steps in Section 7.2.2 of `OPENID4VCI`_. If all checks succeed, the PID/(Q)EAA Provider creates a new credential bound to the key material and provide it to the Wallet Instance. The Wallet Instance MUST perform the following checks before proceeding with the secure storage of the PID/(Q)EAA credential: 
```

>     1. It MUST check that the PID Credential Response contains all the mandatory parameters and values are validated according to what we defined in :ref:`Table of the credential response parameters <table_credential_response_claim>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. It MUST check that the PID Credential Response contains all the mandatory parameters and values are validated according to :ref:`Table of the credential response parameters <table_credential_response_claim>`.
```

    2. It MUST check the PID integrity by verifying the signature using the algorithm specified in the ``alg`` header parameter of SD-JWT (:ref:`PID/(Q)EAA Data Model <pid_eaa_data_model.rst>`) and the public key that is identified using using the ``kid`` header of the SD-JWT.

>     3. It MUST check that the received PID credential (in credential claim) contains all the mandatory parameters that we defined in :ref:`PID/(Q)EAA Data Model <pid_eaa_data_model.rst>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    3. It MUST check that the received PID credential (in credential claim) contains all the mandatory parameters defined in :ref:`PID/(Q)EAA Data Model <pid_eaa_data_model.rst>`.
```

    4. It MUST process and verify the PID that is in SD-JWT VC following the steps in Section 6 of `SD.JWT#Verification <https://drafts.oauth.net/oauth-selective-disclosure-jwt/draft-ietf-oauth-selective-disclosure-jwt.html#name-verification-and-processing>`_.

>     5. It MUST verify the Trust Chain in the header of SD-JWT VC to verify if the issuer of the PID is trusted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    5. It MUST verify the Trust Chain in the header of SD-JWT VC to verify that the PID Provider is trusted.
```

> If the checks are successful it can proceed with secure storage of the PID credential. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the checks defined above are successful the Wallet Instance proceeds with the secure storage of the PID credential. 
```

      - A digital signature algorithm identifier such as per IANA "JSON Web Signature and Encryption Algorithms" registry. It MUST be one of the supported algorithms in Section :ref:`Cryptographic Algorithms <supported_algs>` and MUST NOT be none or an identifier for a symmetric algorithm (MAC).
      - [:rfc:`7515`].
    * - **jwk** 

>       - representing the public key chosen by the Wallet Insatnce, in JSON Web Key (JWK) [RFC7517] format that the Access Token shall be bound to, as defined in Section 4.1.3 of [RFC7515]. It MUST NOT contain a private key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      - representing the public key chosen by the Wallet Instance, in JSON Web Key (JWK) [:rfc:`7517`] format that the Access Token shall be bound to, as defined in Section 4.1.3 of [:rfc:`7515`]. It MUST NOT contain a private key.
```

  * -  **typ** 
    - MUST be `openid4vci-proof+jwt`.
    - `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_, [:rfc:`7515`], [:rfc:`7517`].
  * - **jwk** 

>     - Representing the public key chosen by the Wallet Instance, in JSON Web Key (JWK) [RFC7517] format that the PID/(Q)EAA shall be bound to, as defined in Section 4.1.3 of [RFC7515]. The ``jwk`` value MUST be equal to the same public key that is generated for the DPoP. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Representing the public key chosen by the Wallet Instance, in JSON Web Key (JWK) [:rfc:`7517`] format that the PID/(Q)EAA shall be bound to, as defined in Section 4.1.3 of [:rfc:`7515`]. The ``jwk`` value MUST be equal to the same public key that is generated for the DPoP. 
```
